ZLIB DATA COMPRESSION LIBRARY

The zlib library is a general purpose data compression library. The code is thread safe, assuming
that the standard library functions used are thread safe, such as memory allocation routines. It
provides in-memory compression and decompression functions, including integrity checks of the
uncompressed data. This version of the library suppor ts only one compression method (deflation)
but other algorithms may be added later with the same stream interface.
Compression can be done in a single step if the buffers are large enough or can be done by
repeated calls of the compression function. In the latter case, the application must provide more
input and/or consume the output (providing more output space) before each call.
The library also supports reading and writing files in gzip(1) (.gz) for mat with an interface similar
to that of stdio.
The library does not install any signal handler. The decoder checks the consistency of the compressed
data, so the library should never crash even in the case of corrupted input.
All functions of the compression library are documented in the file zlib.h. The distribution source
includes examples of use of the library in the files test/example.c and test/minigzip.c, as well as
other examples in the examples/ director y.
Changes to this version are documented in the file ChangeLog that accompanies the source.
zlib is built in to many languages and operating systems, including but not limited to Java, Python,
.NET, PHP, Per l, Ruby, Swift, and Go.
An exper imental package to read and write files in the .zip for mat, wr itten on top of zlib by Gilles
Vollant (info@winimage.com), is available at:
http://www.winimage.com/zLibDll/minizip.html and also in the contr ib/minizip director y of
the main zlib source distribution.


Acknowledgments:

  The deflate format used by zlib was defined by Phil Katz.  The deflate and
  zlib specifications were written by L.  Peter Deutsch.  Thanks to all the
  people who reported problems and suggested various improvements in zlib; they
  are too numerous to cite here.

Copyright notice:

 (C) 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu

If you use the zlib library in a product, we would appreciate *not* receiving
lengthy legal documents to sign.  The sources are provided for free but without
warranty of any kind.  The library has been entirely written by Jean-loup
Gailly and Mark Adler; it does not include third-party code.

If you redistribute modified sources, we would appreciate that you include in
the file ChangeLog history information documenting your changes.  Please read
the FAQ for more information on the distribution of modified source versions.
